# Introduction


<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

In today’s fast-paced technology landscape, preparing for a new project
or job interview can be challenging. This is especially true when
someone has not revised core concepts for a long time and suddenly needs
to refresh their knowledge before an interview or a technical assessment
panel.

This book is an attempt to revisit both basic and advanced concepts of
Python in a practical and approachable way. While a detailed chapter
outline is still evolving, the primary goal is simple: readers should be
able to learn by writing and running code examples, and by understanding
the output they produce.

Let us begin with a simple example of a Python function.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### say_hello

``` python

def say_hello(
    to
):

```

*Say Hello to someone.*

In Python, the keyword `def` is used to define a function. Here, the
name of the function is `say_hello`, and it accepts a single parameter
named `to`, which is enclosed in parentheses and followed by a colon
(:).

The line enclosed within triple/duouble quotes is known as a docstring.
It provides documentation about the purpose and behavior of the function
and is often used by developers and tools to understand what the
function does.

Finally, the return statement sends a value back to the caller. In this
example, an `f-string` (a formatted string prefixed with the letter f)
is used to interpolate the value stored in the variable to into the
output string.

Let us call the function as displayed below with a value.

``` python
say_hello("J5ynth")
```

    'Hello J5ynth!'

The output of the function is displayed above and is enclosed within
single quotes (’). This happens because the Jupyter Notebook displays
the return value of the function by internally calling Python’s built-in
print method. Alternatively, one can explicitly call the print method to
display the output, as shown below.

`print(say_hello("J5ynth"))`

Before trying to write and run the function on your own, it is
recommended to first get accustomed to the basic building blocks of the
language.

If this introduction served as a useful primer, provided clarity, and
motivated you to begin preparing for Python interviews, let us move on
to the next chapter. We will start with one of the most fundamental
concepts in Python - the `print` statement.
